README.md, before:

CherwellAPI is a suite of Python modules that abstract the Cherwell REST API and simplify the process of connecting to, and interacting with Cherwell business objects. 

Base Functionality Included
===========================

1. AdHoc searching
2. Encrypting the password and client_key
3. Instantiating a connection object with Encryption
4. Instantiating a connection object without Encryption
5. Creating new business objects
6. Updating existing business objects
7. Deleting existing business objects
8. Running a Saved Search
9. Logging out of Cherwell

The modules also cater for caching of commonly used items such as templates, summaries and business object id's as well as self-managing the expiry and refreshing of the Bearer token used for authorisation. Additionally Tokens can be cached and reused.

This fork alters the auth mechanism used. The mainline CherwellAPI uses auth_type=internal. This module uses auth_mode=Windows.

Encrypting the password and client_key
======================================

Only needs to be executed once, or when credentials change.

All interaction typically takes place the CherwellCredentials Library which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellCredentials

CherwellCredentials.create_encrypted_cherwell_credentials(<password>,<api_key>)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

Instantiating a connection object with Encryption
=================================

Step 2 "Encrypting the password and client_key" must be completed once before this step is executed.

All interaction typically takes place through a **_Connection_** object which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
  
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,None,<username>,None)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

This will search for the stored encryption files you created when running the 

Instantiating a connection object without Encryption
=================================

All interaction typically takes place through a **_Connection_** object which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
  
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

Creating a new business object
==============================

A new Incident could be created as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new instance of an Incident business object
Incident = cherwell_client.get_new_business_object("Incident")

# Set the properties of the new Incident
Incident.CustomerDisplayName = "John Allard"
Incident.Description = "This is a test Incident"
Incident.Priority = 5
Incident.Service = "IT Service Desk"
Incident.Category = "Report Outage or Error"
Incident.Subcategory = "Submit Incident"
Incident.Source = "Event"

# Save the new Incident
Incident.Save()

# Show the new business object record id
print("RecId for new Incident: {}".format(Incident.busObRecId))
print("PublicId for new Incident: {}".format(Incident.busObPublicId))

```
Output from executing the script above would likely looks as follows:

*RecId for new Incident: 944cccbc07cde32400bea6482a8c3dd1f36dc57d6b*

*PublicId for new Incident: 102401*

**Note:** *Depending on how your Cherwell instance is configured, you might need to supply more or less property values, or even different values*

Updating a business object
==========================

The following code snippet, show an example of how to get an instance of the Incident we created in the previous step and update it.

For this we need to import and use the **_SimpleFilter_** object, which we can populate with one or more filters to aid in searching.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
from CherwellAPI import Filter

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new SimpleFilter object instance,
# indicating the filter is applicable for the Cherwell 'Incident' business object
search_filter = Filter.SimpleFilter("Incident")

# Add some search filters - we are looking for the Incident created previously
search_filter.add_search_fields("IncidentID", "eq", "102401")
search_filter.add_search_fields("Status", "eq", "New")
search_filter.add_search_fields("Description", "contains", "test")

# Pass the Simple filter object to the CherwellClient - 'get_business_objects' method
# This method returns the number of matching business objects as well as the list of matching business objects
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_business_objects(search_filter)

# Print number of records returned
print("Number of records: {}".format(num_records))

# Loop through the records returned
index = 0
for business_object in business_objects:
    index = index + 1
    print("Record: {}".format(index))
    print("Public Record Id: {}".format(business_object.busObPublicId))
    print("Status: {}".format(business_object.Status))

    # Change the Incident description
    business_object.Description = "Updated the description"

    # Save the updated business object
    business_object.Save()

```

Deleting the previously created Incident
========================================

Deleting an object is just as easy, see below for an example of deleting the Incident record we updated in the previous step.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
from CherwellAPI import Filter

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new SimpleFilter object, indicating the filter is applicable for the Cherwell Incident business object
search_filter = Filter.SimpleFilter("Incident")

# add a search filter where we are looking for the Incident created previously
search_filter.add_search_fields("IncidentID", "eq", "102401")

# Pass the SimpleFilter object instance to the CherwellClient
# This method returns the number of matching business objects as well as the list of matching business objects
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_business_objects(search_filter)

if num_records == 1:

    # We should only have 1
    business_objects[0].Delete()

```

Running a Saved Search
==========================

The following code snippet, show an example of how to run a saved search on the Cherwell Platform.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Pass the association, scope, saved search name to the CherwellClient's get_saved_search_results
# This method returns the results of the saved search
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_saved_search_results("FederationRegistration","Global","All Active Federation Sources")

# Print number of records returned
print("Number of records: {}".format(num_records))

# Loop through the records returned
for business_object in business_objects:
    print(business_object)

```

For more examples, refer to our GitHub project [here](https://github.com/bwittenburg/CherwellAPI/tree/master/Examples).

Full source code can be found [here](https://github.com/bwittenburg/CherwellAPI).

This project was created by Streamline Partners, and they deserve credit for the great work they put into this module.
To find out more about Streamline Partners and how we could assist you with future projects, click [here](http://www.streamlinepartners.com.au/)

Commit message:

Update README.md - add auth_mode example
Updated README to include auth_mode example

README.md, after:

CherwellAPI is a suite of Python modules that abstract the Cherwell REST API and simplify the process of connecting to, and interacting with Cherwell business objects. 

Base Functionality Included
===========================

1. AdHoc searching
2. Encrypting the password and client_key
3. Instantiating a connection object with Encryption
4. Instantiating a connection object without Encryption
5. Creating new business objects
6. Updating existing business objects
7. Deleting existing business objects
8. Running a Saved Search
9. Logging out of Cherwell

The modules also cater for caching of commonly used items such as templates, summaries and business object id's as well as self-managing the expiry and refreshing of the Bearer token used for authorisation. Additionally Tokens can be cached and reused.

Encrypting the password and client_key
======================================

Only needs to be executed once, or when credentials change.

All interaction typically takes place the CherwellCredentials Library which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellCredentials

CherwellCredentials.create_encrypted_cherwell_credentials(<password>,<api_key>)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

Instantiating a connection object with Encryption
=================================

Step 2 "Encrypting the password and client_key" must be completed once before this step is executed.

All interaction typically takes place through a **_Connection_** object which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
  
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,None,<username>,None)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

This will search for the stored encryption files you created when running the 

Instantiating a connection object without Encryption
=================================

All interaction typically takes place through a **_Connection_** object which can be instantiated as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
  
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

Creating a new business object
==============================

A new Incident could be created as follows:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new instance of an Incident business object
Incident = cherwell_client.get_new_business_object("Incident")

# Set the properties of the new Incident
Incident.CustomerDisplayName = "John Allard"
Incident.Description = "This is a test Incident"
Incident.Priority = 5
Incident.Service = "IT Service Desk"
Incident.Category = "Report Outage or Error"
Incident.Subcategory = "Submit Incident"
Incident.Source = "Event"

# Save the new Incident
Incident.Save()

# Show the new business object record id
print("RecId for new Incident: {}".format(Incident.busObRecId))
print("PublicId for new Incident: {}".format(Incident.busObPublicId))

```
Output from executing the script above would likely looks as follows:

*RecId for new Incident: 944cccbc07cde32400bea6482a8c3dd1f36dc57d6b*

*PublicId for new Incident: 102401*

**Note:** *Depending on how your Cherwell instance is configured, you might need to supply more or less property values, or even different values*

Updating a business object
==========================

The following code snippet, show an example of how to get an instance of the Incident we created in the previous step and update it.

For this we need to import and use the **_SimpleFilter_** object, which we can populate with one or more filters to aid in searching.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
from CherwellAPI import Filter

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new SimpleFilter object instance,
# indicating the filter is applicable for the Cherwell 'Incident' business object
search_filter = Filter.SimpleFilter("Incident")

# Add some search filters - we are looking for the Incident created previously
search_filter.add_search_fields("IncidentID", "eq", "102401")
search_filter.add_search_fields("Status", "eq", "New")
search_filter.add_search_fields("Description", "contains", "test")

# Pass the Simple filter object to the CherwellClient - 'get_business_objects' method
# This method returns the number of matching business objects as well as the list of matching business objects
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_business_objects(search_filter)

# Print number of records returned
print("Number of records: {}".format(num_records))

# Loop through the records returned
index = 0
for business_object in business_objects:
    index = index + 1
    print("Record: {}".format(index))
    print("Public Record Id: {}".format(business_object.busObPublicId))
    print("Status: {}".format(business_object.Status))

    # Change the Incident description
    business_object.Description = "Updated the description"

    # Save the updated business object
    business_object.Save()

```

Deleting the previously created Incident
========================================

Deleting an object is just as easy, see below for an example of deleting the Incident record we updated in the previous step.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
from CherwellAPI import Filter

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Create a new SimpleFilter object, indicating the filter is applicable for the Cherwell Incident business object
search_filter = Filter.SimpleFilter("Incident")

# add a search filter where we are looking for the Incident created previously
search_filter.add_search_fields("IncidentID", "eq", "102401")

# Pass the SimpleFilter object instance to the CherwellClient
# This method returns the number of matching business objects as well as the list of matching business objects
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_business_objects(search_filter)

if num_records == 1:

    # We should only have 1
    business_objects[0].Delete()

```

Running a Saved Search
==========================

The following code snippet, show an example of how to run a saved search on the Cherwell Platform.

```python

from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient

# Create a new CherwellClient Connection
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>)

# Pass the association, scope, saved search name to the CherwellClient's get_saved_search_results
# This method returns the results of the saved search
num_records, business_objects = cherwell_client.get_saved_search_results("FederationRegistration","Global","All Active Federation Sources")

# Print number of records returned
print("Number of records: {}".format(num_records))

# Loop through the records returned
for business_object in business_objects:
    print(business_object)

```

Instantiating a connection using alternative authentication methods
=================================

By default this module will use internal Cherwell authentication. Cherwell supports Internal, LDAP, SAML, and Windows authentication modes. To specify a method other than Internal, add the desired method to the Cherwell client connection:

```python
from CherwellAPI import CherwellClient
  
cherwell_client = CherwellClient.Connection(<base_uri>,<api_key>,<username>,<password>,<auth_mode>)  
```
*Replace the parameters between '<>' with appropriate values from your own Cherwell instance.*

For more examples, refer to our GitHub project [here](https://github.com/streamline-partners/CherwellAPI/tree/master/Examples).

Full source code can be found [here](https://github.com/streamline-partners/CherwellAPI).

To find out more about Streamline Partners and how we could assist you with future projects, click [here](http://www.streamlinepartners.com.au/)
